.TH SIGROK\-CLI 1 "March 28, 2019"
.SH "NAME"
sigrok\-cli \- Command-line client for the sigrok software
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B sigrok\-cli [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsigrok\-cli\fP is a cross-platform command line utility for the
\fBsigrok\fP software.
.PP
It cannot display graphical output, but is still sufficient to run through
the whole process of hardware initialization, acquisition, protocol decoding
and saving the session.
.PP
It is useful for running on remote or embedded systems, netbooks, PDAs,
and for various other use-cases. It can display samples on standard output or
save them in various file formats.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Show a help text and exit.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Show
.B sigrok\-cli
version and the versions of libraries used.
.TP
.B "\-L, \-\-list\-supported"
Show information about supported hardware drivers, input file
formats, output file formats, and protocol decoders.
.TP
.B "\-\-list\-supported\-wiki"
Show information about supported protocol decoders in MediaWiki syntax.
This is generally only used by developers to easily update the list of
supported protocol decoders in the sigrok wiki.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-driver\fP <drivername>
Unless doing a global scan, users typically select one of the available
drivers. This can speedup program start, and can avoid false matches for
ambiguous configurations. Selecting a driver also allows to pass more
driver specific options. Use the
.BR "\-L " ( "\-\-list\-supported" ")"
option to get a list of available drivers.
.sp
Drivers can take options, in the form \fBkey=value\fP
separated by colons.
.sp
Drivers communicating with hardware via a serial port always need the port
specified as the \fBconn\fP option. For example, to use the
Openbench Logic Sniffer:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver=ols:conn=/dev/ttyACM0" " [...]"
.sp
Some USB devices don't use a unique VendorID/ProductID combination, and thus
need that specified as well. Notice that colons are used to separate the
driver name from the \fBconn\fP option, thus colons cannot be used within the
\fBconn\fP option's argument. To select a specific USB device, use either
\fBVendorID.ProductID\fP or \fBbus.address\fP:
.sp
USB \fBVendorID.ProductID\fP example:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver=uni\-t\-ut61e:conn=1a86.e008" " [...]"
.sp
USB \fBbus.address\fP example:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver=uni\-t\-ut61e:conn=4.6" " [...]"
.TP
.B "\-D, \-\-dont\-scan"
Do not automatically scan for device drivers in the absence of a
.BR "\-d " ( "\-\-driver" )
specification.
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-config " <deviceoption>
A colon-separated list of device options, where each option takes the form
.BR key=value .
Multiple occurances of the
.B \-\-config
option are supported.
The first item in the list of options can take the form
.B channel_group=<name>
which would override the
.B \-\-channel\-group
specification for this list of options. Other option lists in other
.B \-\-config
occurances are not affected by this list's channel group name.
.sp
For example, to set the samplerate to 1MHz on a device supported by the
fx2lafw driver, you might specify
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d fx2lafw \-\-config samplerate=1m" " [...]"
.sp
Samplerate is an option common to most logic analyzers. The argument specifies
the samplerate in Hz. You can also specify the samplerate in kHz, MHz or GHz.
The following are all equivalent:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d fx2lafw \-\-config samplerate=1000000" " [...]"
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d fx2lafw \-\-config samplerate=1m" " [...]"
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d fx2lafw \-\-config \(dqsamplerate=1 MHz\(dq" " [...]"
.sp
These examples specify options within a channel group.
The first two are equivalent.
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d demo \-\-channel\-group Logic \-\-config pattern=random [...]"
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d demo \-\-config channel_group=Logic:pattern=random [...]"
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d demo \-\-config samplerate=1m \-\-config channel_group=Logic:pattern=random [...]"
.TP
.BR "\-i, \-\-input\-file " <filename>
Load input from a file instead of a hardware device. You can specify
"-" to use stdin as input. If the
.B \-\-input\-format
option is not supplied, sigrok\-cli attempts to autodetect the file format of
the input file.
.sp
Example for loading a sigrok session file:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-i example.sr" " [...]"
.sp
Example for loading a WAV file (autodetection of input format):
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-i example.wav" " [...]
.sp
Example for loading a VCD file from stdin (autodetection of input format):
.sp
.RB "  $ " "cat example.vcd | sigrok\-cli \-i \-" " [...]
.TP
.BR "\-I, \-\-input\-format " <format>
When loading an input file, assume it's in the specified format. If this
option is not supplied (in addition to
.BR \-\-input\-file ),
sigrok-cli attempts to autodetect the file format of the input file. Use the
.BR "\-L " ( "\-\-list\-supported" ")"
option to see a list of available input formats.
.sp
The format name may optionally be followed by a colon-separated list of
options, where each option takes the form
.BR "key=value" .
.sp
Example for loading a binary file with options:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-i example.bin"
.br
.BR "               \-I binary:numchannels=4:samplerate=1mhz" " [...]"
.TP
.BR "\-o, \-\-output\-file " <filename>
Save output to a file instead of writing it to stdout. The default format
used when saving is the sigrok session file format. This can be changed with
the
.B \-\-output\-format
option.
.sp
Example for saving data in the sigrok session format:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli " "[...] " "\-o example.sr"
.TP
.BR "\-O, \-\-output\-format " <format>
Set the output format to use. Use the
.BR "\-L " ( "\-\-list\-supported" ")"
option to see a list of available output formats.
.sp
The format name may optionally be followed by a colon-separated list of
options, where each option takes the form
.BR "key=value" .
.sp
For example, the
.B bits
or
.B hex
formats, for an ASCII bit or ASCII hexadecimal display, can take a "width" option, specifying the number of samples (in bits) to display per line. Thus
.B "\-O hex:width=128"
will display 128 bits per line, in hexadecimal:
.sp
 0:ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff
 1:ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00
.sp
The lines always start with the channel number (or name, if defined), followed by a colon. If no format is specified, it defaults to
.BR bits:width=64 ,
like this:
.sp
 0:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
 1:11111111 00000000 11111111 00000000 [...]
.sp
Example for saving data in the CSV format with options:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli " "[...] " "\-o example.csv \-O csv:dedup:header=false"
.sp
Notice that boolean options are \fBtrue\fP when no value gets specified.
.TP
.BR "\-C, \-\-channels " <channellist>
A comma-separated list of channels to be used in the session.
.sp
Note that sigrok always names the channels according to how they're shown on
the enclosure of the hardware. If your logic analyzer numbers the channels 0\-15,
that's how you must specify them with this option. An oscilloscope's channels
would generally be referred to as "CH1", "CH2", and so on.
Use the \fB\-\-show\fP option to see a list of channel names for your device.
.sp
The default is to use all the channels available on a device. You can name
a channel like this:
.BR "1=CLK" .
A range of channels can also be given, in the form
.BR "1\-5" .
.sp
Example:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver fx2lafw \-\-samples 100"
.br
.B "               \-\-channels 1=CLK,2\-4,7"
.br
 CLK:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   2:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   3:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   4:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   7:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
.sp
The comma-separated list is processed from left to right, i.e. items farther
to the right override previous items. For example
.B "1=CS,CS=MISO"
will set the name of channel 1 to
.BR "MISO" .
.TP
.BR "\-g, \-\-channel\-group "<channel\ group>
Specify the channel group to operate on. Some devices organize channels into
groups, the settings of which can only be changed as a group. The list of
channel groups, if any, is displayed with the \fB\-\-show\fP command.
.sp
Examples:
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-g CH1" " [...]"
.sp
.RB "  $ " "sigrok\-cli \-d demo \-g Logic \-c pattern=graycode" " [...]"
.sp
Channel group specifications in
.B \-\-get
or
.B \-\-config
options take precedence over channel group names in
.B \-\-channel\-group
so that a single
.B sigrok\-cli
invocation can support the query or manipulation of multiple device options
which reside in different channel groups.
.TP
.BR "\-t, \-\-triggers " <triggerlist>
A comma-separated list of triggers to use, of the form
.BR "<channel>=<trigger>" .
You can use the name or number of the channel, and the trigger itself is a
series of characters:
.sp
.BR "0 or 1" :
A low or high value on the pin.
.br
.BR "r or f" :
A rising or falling value on the pin. An
.B r
effectively corresponds to
.BR 01 .
.br
.BR "e" :
Any kind of change on a pin (either a rising or a falling edge).
.sp
Not every device supports all of these trigger types. Use the \fB\-\-show\fP
command to see which triggers your device supports.
.TP
.BR "\-w, \-\-wait\-trigger"
Don't output any sample data (even if it's actually received from the
hardware) before the trigger condition is met. In other words, do not output
any pre-trigger data. This option is useful if you don't care about the data
that came before the trigger (but the hardware delivers this data to sigrok
nonetheless).
.TP
.BR "\-P, \-\-protocol\-decoders " <list>
This option allows the user to specify a comma-separated list of protocol
decoders to be used in this session. The decoders are specified by their
ID, as shown in the
.BR "\-L " ( "\-\-list\-supported" ")"
output.
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c"
.sp
Each protocol decoder can optionally be followed by a colon-separated list
of options, where each option takes the form
.BR "key=value" .
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> "
.br
.B "              \-P uart:baudrate=115200:parity=odd"
.sp
The list of supported options depends entirely on the protocol decoder. Every
protocol decoder has different options it supports.
.sp
Any "options" specified for a protocol decoder which are not actually
supported options, will be interpreted as being channel name/number assignments.
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr>"
.br
.B "              \-P spi:wordsize=9:miso=1:mosi=5:clk=3:cs=0"
.sp
In this example,
.B wordsize
is an option supported by the
.B spi
protocol decoder. Additionally, the user tells sigrok to decode the SPI
protocol using channel 1 as MISO signal for SPI, channel 5 as MOSI, channel 3
as CLK, and channel 0 as CS# signal.
.sp
Notice that the
.B sigrok\-cli
application does not support "name matching". Instead it's assumed that the
traces in the input stream match the order of the decoder's input signals,
or that users explicitly specify the input channel to decoder signal mapping.
.br
.sp
When multiple decoders are specified in the same
.BR -P
option, they will be stacked on top of each other in the specified order.
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c,eeprom24xx"
.br
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P uart:baudrate=31250,midi"
.sp
When multiple
.BR -P
options are specified, each of them creates one decoder stack, which
executes in parallel to other decoder stacks.
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P uart:tx=D0:rx=D1 \-P timing:data=D2"
.sp
.TP
.BR "\-A, \-\-protocol\-decoder\-annotations " <annotations>
By default, all annotation output of all protocol decoders is
shown. With this option a specific decoder's annotations can be selected for
display, by specifying the decoder ID:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c,i2cfilter,edid \-A i2c"
.sp
If a protocol decoder has multiple annotation classes, you can also specify
which one of them to show by specifying its short description like this:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c,i2cfilter,edid"
.br
.B "              \-A i2c=data\-read"
.sp
Select multiple annotation classes by separating them with a colon:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c,i2cfilter,edid"
.br
.B "              \-A i2c=data\-read:data\-write"
.sp
Annotation row names will resolve to their respective list of classes.
Row and class names can be used in combination. When names are ambiguous
then class names take precedence.
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c"
.br
.B "              \-A i2c=addr\-data:warnings"
.sp
You can also select multiple protocol decoders, with optionally selected
annotation classes each, by separating them with commas:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-P i2c,i2cfilter,edid"
.br
.B "              \-A i2c=data\-read:data\-write,edid"
.TP
.BR "\-M, \-\-protocol\-decoder\-meta " <pdname>
When given, show protocol decoder meta output instead of annotations.
The argument is the name of the decoder whose meta output to show.
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-M i2c"
.sp
Not every decoder generates meta output.
.TP
.BR "\-B, \-\-protocol\-decoder\-binary " <binaryspec>
When given, decoder "raw" data of various kinds is written to stdout instead
of annotations (this could be raw binary UART/SPI bytes, or WAV files, PCAP
files, PNG files, or anything else; this is entirely dependent on the
decoder and what kinds of binary output make sense for that decoder).
.sp
No other information is printed to stdout, so this is
suitable for piping into other programs or saving to a file.
.sp
Protocol decoders that support binary output publish a list of binary
classes, for example the UART decoder might have "TX" and "RX". To
select TX for output, the argument to this option would be:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-B uart=tx"
.br
.sp
If only the protocol decoder is specified, without binary class, all classes
are written to stdout:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-i <file.sr> \-B uart"
.sp
(this is only useful in rare cases, generally you would specify a certain
binary class you're interested in)
.sp
Not every decoder generates binary output.
.TP
.BR "\-\-protocol\-decoder\-samplenum
When given, decoder annotations will include sample numbers, too.
This allows consumers to receive machine readable timing information.
.TP
.BR "\-\-protocol\-decoder\-ann\-class
When given, decoder annotations will include annotation class names.
.TP
.BR "\-l, \-\-loglevel " <level>
Set the libsigrok and libsigrokdecode loglevel. At the moment \fBsigrok\-cli\fP
doesn't support setting the two loglevels independently. The higher the
number, the more debug output will be printed. Valid loglevels are:
.sp
\fB0\fP   None
.br
\fB1\fP   Error
.br
\fB2\fP   Warnings
.br
\fB3\fP   Informational
.br
\fB4\fP   Debug
.br
\fB5\fP   Spew
.TP
.B "\-\-show"
.br
Show information about the selected option. For example, to see options for a
connected fx2lafw device:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver fx2lafw \-\-show
.sp
In order to properly get device options for your hardware, some drivers might
need a serial port specified:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver ols:conn=/dev/ttyACM0 \-\-show
.sp
This also works for protocol decoders, input modules and output modules:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-protocol\-decoders i2c \-\-show
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-input\-format csv \-\-show
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-output\-format bits \-\-show
.sp
This also works for input files, including optional input format specifications:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-input\-file <file.sr> \-\-show
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-input\-file <file.vcd> \-\-input\-format vcd \-\-show
.TP
.B "\-\-scan"
Scan for devices that can be detected automatically.
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-scan
.br
 The following devices were found:
.br
 demo \- Demo device with 12 channels: D0 D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 A0 A1 A2 A3
.br
 fx2lafw:conn=3.26 \- CWAV USBee SX with 8 channels: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
.sp
However, not all devices are auto-detectable (e.g. serial port based ones).
For those you'll have to provide a \fBconn\fP option, see above.
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok\-cli \-\-driver digitek\-dt4000zc:conn=/dev/ttyUSB0 \-\-scan
.br
 The following devices were found:
.br
 Digitek DT4000ZC with 1 channel: P1
.TP
.BR "\-\-time " <ms>
Sample for
.B <ms>
milliseconds, then quit.
.sp
You can optionally follow the number by \fBs\fP to specify the time to
sample in seconds.
.sp
For example,
.B "\-\-time 2s"
will sample for two seconds.
.TP
.BR "\-\-samples " <numsamples>
Acquire
.B <numsamples>
samples, then quit.
.sp
You can optionally follow the number by \fBk\fP, \fBm\fP, or \fBg\fP to
specify the number of samples in kilosamples, megasamples, or gigasamples,
respectively.
.sp
For example,
.B "\-\-samples 3m"
will acquire 3000000 samples.
.TP
.BR "\-\-frames " <numframes>
Acquire
.B <numframes>
frames, then quit.
.TP
.BR "\-\-continuous"
Sample continuously until stopped. Not all devices support this.
.TP
.BR "\-\-get " <variable>
Get the value of
.B <variable>
from the specified device and print it.
Multiple variable names can be specified and get separated by colon.
The list of variable names optionally can be preceeded by
.B "channel_group=<name>"
which would override the
.B \-\-channel\-group
specification.
Multiple
.B \-\-get
occurances are supported in a single
.B sigrok\-cli
invocation.
.sp
 $
.B sigrok\-cli \-d demo \-\-get samplerate:averaging \-\-get channel_group=Logic:pattern
.TP
.BR "\-\-set"
Set one or more variables specified with the \fB\-\-config\fP option, without
doing any acquisition.
.SH EXAMPLES
In order to get exactly 100 samples from the connected fx2lafw-supported logic
analyzer hardware, run the following command:
.TP
.B "  sigrok\-cli \-\-driver fx2lafw \-\-samples 100"
.TP
If you want to sample data for 3 seconds (3000 ms), use:
.TP
.B "  sigrok\-cli \-\-driver fx2lafw \-\-time 3000"
.TP
Alternatively, you can also use:
.TP
.B "  sigrok\-cli \-\-driver fx2lafw \-\-time 3s"
.TP
To capture data from the first 4 channels using the Openbench Logic Sniffer lasting 100ms at 10 MHz starting at the trigger condition
0:high, 1:rising, 2:low, 3:high, use:
.TP
.nf
\fBsigrok\-cli \-\-driver ols:conn=/dev/ttyACM0 \-\-config samplerate=10m \\\fP
\fB\-\-output\-format bits \-\-channels 0\-3 \-\-wait\-trigger \\\fP
\fB\-\-triggers 0=1,1=r,2=0,3=1 \-\-time 100\fP
.TP
To turn on internal logging on a Lascar EL-USB series device:
.TP
\fBsigrok\-cli \-\-driver lascar\-el\-usb:conn=10c4.0002 \\\fP
\fB\-\-config datalog=on \-\-set\fP
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B sigrok\-cli
exits with 0 on success, 1 on most failures.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBpulseview\fP(1)
.SH "BUGS"
Please report any bugs via Bugzilla
.RB "(" http://sigrok.org/bugzilla ")"
or on the sigrok\-devel mailing list
.RB "(" sigrok\-devel@lists.souceforge.net ")."
.SH "LICENSE"
.B sigrok\-cli
is covered by the GNU General Public License (GPL). Some portions are
licensed under the "GPL v2 or later", some under "GPL v3 or later".
.SH "AUTHORS"
Please see the individual source code files.
.PP
This manual page was written by Uwe Hermann <uwe@hermann\-uwe.de>.
It is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPL (version 2 or later).
